oh yeah your dollar right number this
time
one of the best ways to make sure your
guitar plays and sounds great is to
regularly change its strings and give it
a proper set up how often you need new
strings depends on how much they're
played and on the guitars environment a
string change in a setup
are simple enough that they can be done
from home with the right knowledge all
you need are a few tools and a little
time using the same gauge of strings as
what's already on your guitar means less
work during setup than when switching
gauges
the tools needed are wire cutters a
Phillips head screwdriver for truss rod
access three different sized flathead
screwdrivers for adjusting the pickups
and intonation string action and the
height of the tail piece from your user
kit you will need the polishing cloth
and truss rod wrench
you'll also need Allen wrenches in the
sizes of two and one and a half
millimeters while adjusting the truss
rod a business card can be useful and
you will also need a tuner
when removing the strings it's best to
change them one after the other to
minimize the stress changes on the
instrument to show this process from the
ground up we're going to remove all the
strings
loosen each string before unlocking its
trim lock and removing it from the
machine head after this you can cut the
string with wire cutters making less
simple through the tail piece and
lowering the risk of scratching from the
bent part of the string you can place
the polishing cloth behind the tail
piece to protect the finish while you're
removing the strings
insert the string through the back of
the tail piece and through the machine
head
pull the string tight and tighten the
trim lock making sure not to over
tighten
tune the string and cut away the excess
to improve your initial tuning stability
you can break in your strings a bit by
pressing down just in front of and
behind both the bridge and the nut
to check if your truss rod needs
adjustment press down simultaneously on
the first and last frets at the ninth
fret there should be a gap of between
point one and point three millimeters
which is about the thickness of a
business card how you prefer string
action has no effect on the spacing if
you need to adjust this remove the truss
rod cover with a Philips head
screwdriver and set the truss rod wrench
into place
to bend the neck back and decrease the
gap at the ninth fret turn the truss rod
to the right turning the truss rod to
the left increases this gap always make
adjustments using small increments and
retune after each adjustment remember
that it takes time for the neck to
adjust completely you'll need to check
it after about an hour and once more on
the following day to see if more
adjustment is needed
once the neck is set you can adjust how
high the strings rest above the frets
although everyone has their own
preference with string action we set up
guitars using an optimal string type of
1.7 millimeters for the top string and
one and a half millimeters for the
bottom an easy way to gauge this is by
placing a one-and-a-half millimeter
allen wrench between the string and the
12th fret leaving a slight gap with the
top string and none with the bottom
before adjusting the action you'll have
to unlock both sides of the bridge with
a one and a half millimeter allen wrench
for lower action tighten the screw on
the corresponding side of the bridge
with a flathead screwdriver using
gradual increments to raise the action
turn the screw to the left after
retuning you can see how this action
works for you after adjusting the string
action retighten the locking screws on
the bridge and make sure the strings
only come into contact with the bridge
at the saddles if the strings touch the
back of the bridge the tail piece needs
to be raised to do this first unlock the
tail piece as you did with the bridge
then with a flathead screwdriver that
fits the screws raise the tail piece by
turning the corresponding screw
gradually to the left
after you're done lock the tailpiece
back into place and retune your guitar
pickup height also varies according to
personal preference the closer a pickup
is to the strings the higher its output
this however reduces sustain to get the
best of both we suggest a spacing of two
millimeters you can check this by
placing a two millimeter allen wrench on
top of the pickup and pressing down on
the last fret doing so for both sides
and for each pickup
then use a flathead screwdriver to make
the necessary adjustments
you
to be sure that the notes stay in tune
all the way up the fingerboard your
guitar has to be properly intonated
after checking your strings tuning check
it at the 12th fret if the note is sharp
the saddle should be closer to the
bridge if it's flat then the saddle
should be closer to the nut make the
adjustments with a flathead screwdriver
using gradual increments after retuning
check it at the 12th fret and make any
additional adjustments as needed after
repeating this process for all the
strings your guitar will be fully setup
you